---
layout: post
title: The Choice is Yours - Rough Version
category: posts
---

**This post is just a set of ideas, it's not intended to be the final
post**

![](/images/the-power-of-choice.png)

> "Right now you are one choice away from a new beginning â€“ one that leads
> you toward becoming the fullest human being you can be." - Oprah Winfrey

A few years ago I entered a huge state of depression. I was fired for
the first time ever from an amazing job, my girlfriend at the time broke
up with me days later, and I was very unsure how I was going to pay rent
that month.

For days I didn't go communicate with the outside world or even visibly
see it. Moping around in my own misery, not choosing to take what life
had given me and make the best of it. Eventually I grew tired of feeling
this way and with the motivation from a few friends I decided enough was
enough. I would make the choice to turn my life around.

I found a job in NY, borrowed some money to pay rent, and started
focusing on myself opposed to having the need of someone else to fulfill
my happiness.

You see, choice is the most powerful of tools that a person can have.
Every thing that we are presented with in life is a choice. You choose
whether or not to be offended by a strangers remarks. You choose to
sweat over a grill and flip burgers at a job you loath. You choose to
have a negative perspective on situations in your life, instead of
accepting them for what they are and taking action.

As humans we like to push the blame to other people, instead of
accepting it as our own. We blame others for the emotional responses we
have. We blame the government for our lack of skills, thus our lack of
employability. We blame our past for not truly being the person we want
to be. These people, situations they do not have a gun to our head. The
only weapon is the one we use against ourselves when making choices.

Next time someone says something offensive to you, choose to not be
offended. Choose to be the one in control of your emotions. Choose to
not let someone else dictate the way you feel. They are only words,
there is no physical harm.

Choose to learn a new skill or pursue your life long dream. Why waste
your life doing something you do not enjoy. Choose to live the life you
want to live. There's no reason you cannot learn anything. There is an
endless amount of information that you can find if you just choose to
look for it.

When life gives you lemons, choose to reframe the situation. Think "How
can I take these lemons and use them to improve my life, my situation,
and my perspective". We've all done amazing things with lemons and there
is no reason that we cannot continue to do so.

Make the choice, to not let choice be a weapon against you. Use choice
as a tool to become your very best self. You deserve it after all.
